---
title: 'South Korean Politics 1: My thoughts about Han Dong-hoon'
date: 2024-12-18
permalink: /posts/2024/12/18/korea/1
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

<!-- This is a sample blog post. Lorem ipsum I can't remember the rest of lorem ipsum and don't have an internet connection right now. Testing testing testing this blog post. Blog posts are cool.

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------ -->

Politics is a topic that I find very entertaining to read during my free time. Luckily for me, during the final exam period, South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol (윤석열) dropped a bombshell of martial law on December 3rd, 2024, and I had something to entertain myself during the most stressful time of the semester.

While observing what was happening in South Korea, the person that I cannot miss is Han Dong-hoon (한동훈), once Yoon's right-hand man, now on Yoon's arrest list. It makes me remembered one of the articles that I read a few months ago, from "The Blue Roof". I credit for them and share it here on this page:

"People Power Party chairman Han Dong-hun 한동훈 국민의힘 당대표 is known to be obsessed with his public image. He is widely rumored to be wearing a wig to cover his baldness. Photos of Han at public events suggest that he wears height-boosting shoes and chest enhancements. He has also mastered the art of being noticed carrying books on big-brain topics, such as the time he showed off his copy of the History of the Peloponnesian War at the airport on his way to an official visit to France.

Which is to say that the image-conscious Han must have experienced his October 21 meeting with President Yoon Suk-yeol 윤석열 대통령 as an unending string of humiliations. Han had spent the preceding month all but begging for a one-on-one meeting with Yoon to address the administration’s popularity rating, which has been sinking ever-lower under the weight of numerous scandals involving First Lady Kim Geon-hee 김건희 영부인. Yoon finally did agree to meet, but denied Han the intimacy of a one-on-one meeting by having the presidential Chief of Staff Jeong Jin-seok 정진석 비서실장 present.

On the day of the meeting, Yoon kept Han waiting for 25 minutes, ostensibly for a teleconference that ran over. Han had reportedly demanded a round table for the meeting, to send the message that he, as the leader of the ruling party, was equal in stature with the president. Yoon’s staff pointedly declined: the official photo of the meeting released by the Office of the President shows Yoon glaring at Han from across a long table, as if the boss was about to unload on the insolent subordinate.

Yoon summoned his ally and PPP Floor Leader Chu Gyeong-ho 추경호 국민의힘 원내대표 for dinner immediately after the meeting, as if to demonstrate his access to other members of the ruling party leadership. Not to be outdone, Han also summoned 20 PPP lawmakers aligned with him the day after the meeting. The following day, Han’s cronies took to the media circuit to discuss Han’s disappointment with his meeting with the president.

The substance of the meeting was no better than its optics. For 80 minutes, Han reportedly pleaded with Yoon to have Kim stop appearing in public, sack members of the presidential staff linked to her, and appoint a Special Inspector General to address the allegations against the First Lady. His pleas fell on deaf ears: Yoon replied that the First Lady is already restraining herself from public appearances and denied that she or her staff had been proven to have engaged in wrongdoing.

The falling-out between Yoon and Han is surprising, in a way: Han rose to his current position by serving as Yoon’s right-hand man throughout Yoon’s own meteoric rise from prosecutor to president.  It is, however, the latest instance of a well-established tradition in South Korean politics in which the formerly loyal Number Two man elevates himself by toppling his predecessor, as Kim Young-sam 김영삼 did to Chun Doo-hwan 전두환 and Roh Tae-woo 노태우 and as Roh Moo-hyun 노무현 did to Kim Dae-jung 김대중.

By and large, the conservatives have already chosen their side. South Korea’s three largest newspapers, all of which lean right, are running daily editorials and op-eds calling for Yoon to do something, anything, to rein in his wife. Conservative voters are also abandoning Yoon: the president’s approval rating has been firmly mired in the low 20s, similar to Park Geun-hye 박근혜 shortly before her impeachment. Only eight PPP lawmakers stand between Yoon and impeachment or special prosecutor investigation. 

The next showdown is likely to come in mid-November, when the PPP is likely to hold an internal vote on whether to support the appointment of a Special Inspector General for the First Lady. Floor Leader Chu, an ally of the president, is likely to mount a campaign against Han, who has been attempting to distance the party he chairs from the First Lady’s endless scandals."